# Contributing
We would love to have you as a contributor! There are many ways to contribute to the project, including: 
reporting issues, requesting features, submitting suggestions, and making pull requests.

## Reporting Issues
Please include enough information in each issue to reproduce the bug. Extra points if you submit a failing test case to 
the `tests/cases` folder, and also include the test in `tests/skipped.json` - this will not run as part of the testsuite by
default, but make it very easy for others to contribute a fix (or read on if you want to do it yourself :wink:). 

## Building and Running 
1. Fork and clone the repository.
2. `composer-install`
3. `vendor\bin\phpunit` from the root project directory to run the tests to run all the test suites defined in `phpunit.xml`. 
To run individual suites, run `vendor\bin\phpunit --testsuite <test suite name>`.
Note that the validation test suite requires you to also include relevant submodules: `git submodule update --init --recursive`

> :lightbulb: looking for your first PR? Take a look through the issue tracker, search the codebase for TODOs, or try enabling
one of the test cases in `skipped.json`. 

## Debugging
For debugging, we recommend you install and configure Felix Becker's [PHP Debug extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=felixfbecker.php-debug). For debugging the tests in this project,
you can run the `Listen for XDebug` launch configuration included in this project, and then from the command line:
```
php -debug -d zend_extension=<my-path-to-extension> -d xdebug.remote_enable=1 -d xdebug.remote_autostart=1 vendor\phpunit\phpunit\phpunit <my-phpunit-arguments>
```

Additionally some of the tests output files for failed tests to make it easier to debug.
See the notes in `phpunit.xml` for more info about this behavior.

## Running code coverage
After enabling `xdebug`, run code coverage by executing:
```
php -d memory_limit=500M vendor/bin/phpunit --coverage-html tmp/ tests/
```

## Example PRs
> Note - These examples aren't perfect... they were from early "exploratory" stages of the project,
and the codebase has changed a bit since then. If you spot a particularly educational PR, feel free
to suggest it for the list!

### Adding a Feature
This [commit](8d019cb731d6e5492eedf044c895124f5ab28089) adds return-statement support. There are a few things
to note. 
1. Naming consistency with the PHP language spec
2. Formatting consistency with rest of codebase.
3. TODO comment for any missing functionality (now that we're on GitHub, a reference to a filed issue would also be nice)
4. Test cases that provide an input `.php` file and output `.tree` file (any cases in `tests/cases`)

### Fixing an issue
This [commit](f1084a46e6be1e77cf6a1d1e6666a7390b359f4a) fixes a simple issue related to if-statement parsing. Note that
there are more test case changes than lines of code.

### Adding a Test Case
The more tests the better, so we also accept test contributions without any functional code changes.
* [Adding tests](2ad62b99015561103b636d9cc8e0463498535b20) - Parser test cases provide an input `.php` file and an output `.tree`
file (Lexical test cases provide an output `.tokens` file). The output `.tree` file need not be generated by hand, and will be
overwritten if the test is failing. To generate the `tree` file, run the "grammar" test suite. If you've made edits to the file
that you'd like to keep, make sure you stage your changes in git so that they are not reverted. 
* [Skipping a failing test](04c1cf9f0be20d115dc2f8c26019de4ea5bf4fc5) - we like to keep all of our tests green to
to make it easier to detect regressions, so this list keeps track of everything we want to come back to. 

## Code of Conduct
This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). 
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact 
[opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
